RELEASE NOTES

Program: SCIRun 4.7
Date: November 13, 2013


Supported platforms:

[1] Windows: SCIRun 4.7 currently runs on Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows Vista and
    Windows XP Service Pack (SP) 3 both 64 and 32bit. 

[2] OS X: SCIRun 4.7 supports OS X 10.5 and higher. Currently both a 32bit and
    a 64bit version are available. Please note that SCIRun requires the X11 package
    to be installed from the installation disk. For OS X 10.5, note that some of the
    latest releases of the X11.pkg (2.3.1) contain bugs that prevent SCIRun from
    running properly when compiled with 2.3.1 X11 libraries. We use X11.pkg version
    2.2.0 which works fine with our software.
    For OS X 10.6 and 10.7, the default X11.pkg is supported.
    For OS X 10.8, only NVIDIA cards are known to work with SCIRun's visualization
    code.
    Install the recommended XQuartz version (currently 2.7).

[3] Linux: SCIRun 4.7 supports most flavors of Linux, but requires the user to
    compile SCIRun from scratch. Generally, ATI graphics cards do not work with
    SCIRun on Linux, for functionality such as volume rendering. For Linux we
    recommend an NVIDIA graphics card, as the NVDIA drivers are more compatible with
    SCIRun. Although SCIRun is shipped with most thirdparty software, compilation
    tools like gcc, svn and cmake need to be installed on the machine separately
    prior to running the build.sh script.


OpenGL requirement:

On older systems OpenGL often is version 1.2 or 1.1. However for SCIRun to work one
needs an OpenGL library of version 2.0 or higher. Currently most Linux and OS X
systems have a recent enough OpenGL library. Usually, only older Windows XP versions do
not have a newer OpenGL library. Please update OpenGL drivers on those older systems
before running SCIRun.


Binary versions:

Binary versions are available for Windows XP/Vista/7 and OS X 10.5 and greater.
We no longer ship PowerPC compatible binaries, however SCIRun can be build from source
on those architectures.


Source code:

Source code of SCIRun is available from https://gforge.sci.utah.edu/, use Subversion
to check out the latest version of the code. The latest code can be downloaded by:

svn co --username anonymous https://gforge.sci.utah.edu/svn/cibc/cibc/trunk .


Documentation:

SCIRun tutorials are available in PDF format in the binary downloads for OS X and
Windows, and in the source distributions, as well as online (http://www.scirun.org).
Documentation can also be built from source code, if LaTeX software is available, by
enabling documentation in CMake, or using the "--documentation" flag with the SCIRun
build script. Module documentation is still available online, as is the SCIRun wiki.

Questions regarding SCIRun can always be posted to scirun-users@sci.utah.edu.


New features:

[1] The ECGToolkit is a collection of software tools and example SCIRun networks for
    solving forward and inverse problems in electrocardiography, with special
    documentation to describe these tools and their use.
    The tools feature BEM and FEM solvers for most of the important cases of
    activation-based and potential-based source models and a number of inverse
    solution methods. Some of the code is written in Matlab and connects with SCIRun
    through our interface module, and some functionality depends on ECGSim, a free
    package distributedly separately from http://www.ecgsim.org.

[2] The module BuildTDCSMatrix has been added to the SCIRun package, which generates
    a matrix which formulates the forward problem of transcranial direct current
    stimulation (tDCS).

[3] Fixed bug in Tetrahedral mesh Gaussian sampling scheme (contributed by Peter
    Johnston, Griffith University).

[4] Boost upgrade to version 1.53.

[5] A test network ws added for ClipLatVolByIndicesOrWidget module demonstrating
    the use of the bounding box widget to clip the test LatVol field.

[6] A new linear system solver function (LAPACK-based) was added to DenseMatrix.

[7] A divide by zero exception in the math function parser library.

[8] Fixed bug in the JoinFields module: only copy elements if there are any to copy.

[9] The BuildFEMatrix modules in the BioPSE and SCIRun packages have been merged.
    The BioPSE BuildFEMatrix module has been deleted.

[10] SparseMatrix support has been added to the CollectMatrices module.
